# Bonding

Revised: No
Tags: Unit 2

- **What is an Ionic Bond?**
    - An ionic solid is held together by the electrostatic attractions between ions that are next to one another in a lattice structure. They often occur between metals and nonmetals. In an ionic bond, electrons are not shared. Instead, the cation gives up an electron (or electrons) to the anion.
    - **Substances held together by ionic bonds will usually be solid at room temperature and have very high melting and boiling points.**
    - What affects the melting points of ionic substances?
        1. The charge on the ions. By Coulomb's law, greater charge means greater bond energy so higher melting point.
        2. If both compounds are of equal charge, than the size must be considered. Smaller size means greater bond energy means higher melting point
    - Ionic solids are poor conductors of electricity because electrons do not move around the lattice.
    - Ionic liquids, however do conduct electricity because the ions are free to move about in the liquid phase
- **What is a Metallic Bond?**
    - A metallic bond is when two metals bond together.
    - This occurs when two metals are melted into their liquid phases and then poured together.
    - **What is an interstitial alloy?**
        - In one of these, a metal atom with two vastly different radii combine.
        - Example: Steel, the much smaller carbon atoms occupy the interstices of the iron atoms.
    - **What is a substitutional alloy?**
        - This forms between atoms of similar radii.
        - Example: Brass. Atoms of zinc are substituted for some atoms of copper atoms to create the alloy.
- **What is a Covalent Bond?**
    - In a covalent bond, two atoms share electrons.
    - Each atom counts the shared electrons as part of its valence shell. In this way, both atoms achieve complete outer shells.
    - The first covalent bond formed between two atoms is called a sigma bond, so all single bonds are sigma bonds.
    - If additional bonds are form between the two atoms, they're called pi bonds.