# Periodic Trends

Revised: No
Tags: Unit 1

- **What are the three basic rules of understanding periodic trends?**
    1. Electrons are attracted to the protons in the nucleus of an atom
        1. The closer an electron is to the nucleus, the more strongly it is attracted.
        2. The more protons in a nucleus, the more strongly an electron is attracted.
    2. Electrons are repelled by other electrons in an atom. So, if other electrons are attracted between a valence electron and the nucleus, the valence electron will be less attracted to the nucleus. That's called **shielding**.
    3. Completed shells (and to a lesser extent, completed subshells) are very stable. Atoms will add or subtract valence electrons to create complete shells if possible.
    
- **Explain the Periodic Trends for Atomic Radius**
    - From left to right across a period, atomic radius decreases.
        - 
    - Moving down a group, atomic radius increases
    - Cations are smaller than atoms
        - When electrons are removed, the outer shell is lost so the cation is smaller.
    - Anions are larger than atoms
        - When al electron is added, electron-electron repulsions increase causing valence electrons to move further apart leading to an increase in the atomic radiusu.
- **Explain the Periodic Trends for Ionization Energy**
    - Left to Right across a Period
        - Ionization energy increases
        - Protons are added to the nucleus, which increases its positive charge. For this reason, the negatively charged valence electrons are more strongly attracted to the nucleus which increases the energy required to remove them
    - Moving down a group
        - Ionization energy decreases
        - Shells of Electrons are added to the nucleus. Each inner shell shields the more distant shells from the nucleus, reducing the pull of the nucleus on the valence electrons and making them easier to remove.
    - Second Ionization Energy is greater than the first ionization energy
- **Explain the Periodic Trends for Electronegativity**
    - Electronegativity refers to how strongly the nucleus of an atom attracts the electrons of other atoms in a bond. Electronegativity is affected by two factors.
        - The smaller an atom is, the more effectively its nuclear charge will be felt past its outermost energy level and the higher its electronegativity will be.
        - Second, the closer an element is to having a full energy level, the more likely it is to attract the necessary electrons to complete that level.
    - Moving left to right, electronegativity decreases
    - Moving down a group, electronegativity decreases.