# Exam 2 Prep

# Topics to Cover

- [x]  2.2 and 2.3: Invertible Matrices
- [x]  2.4 and 2.5: Partitioned Matrices and Matrix Factorizations
- [ ]  2.6: Leontif Input-Output Model
- [ ]  2.7: Computer Graphics
- [x]  2.8: Subspaces
- [x]  2.9: Dimension and Rank
- [x]  3.1 to 3.3: Determinants
- [ ]  4.9: Markov Chains
- [ ]  5.1 and 5.2: Eigenvectors and Eigenvalues, The Characteristic Equation

# Common Mistakes

- Forgetting that if a pivot in the last col, then system is INCONSISTENT ⇒ not a subspace.
- More vectors than entries ⇒ Linearly dependent and thus not a subspace.
- The set of all solutions of a system of m homogeneous equations in n unknowns is a subspace of R^N = the null space.
- The column space of a matrix A is the set of all b for which Ax = b has a solution.
- rank(A) = dim(Col(A))
- rank(A) + dim(Null(A)) = no. of columns in A
- Sketching column space
- Squaring a matrix will also square the eigenvalue for which a corresponding eigenvector works
- Squaring a matrix, squares its determinant
- Inversing a matrix, inverses its determinant
- if eigenvalue = 0 then determinant is 0 and matrix is not invertible but if eigenvalue ≠ 0 then that does not mean determinant is not 0
- Geometric multiplicity of an eigenvalue is the dimension of Null (A - lambda * I)
- x = Cx + d
- (I - C)x = d
- Cx = intermediate demand
- d = final demand
- x = amount produced

# Guiding Questions

- What is a singular matrix?
    - A matrix that is not invertible.
- What qualifies something as a subspace?
    - Contains zero vector
    - Closed under scaling
    - Closed under addition
- How do you find the null space and column space?
- How do rank and dimension relate to each other and the null and column space?
- What makes a matrix invertible?
    - Refer to the invertible matrix theorem
- How do you do LU factorization?
- How do you find a steady state vector?
- How do you find the eigenvalues for a particular matrix, and then find the eigenvectors for each eigenvalue?

# Practice Exams

[Practice Exams](Exam%202%20Prep%205e59086239dc44cc9ab7d940b8d336d1/Practice%20Exams%20625f3062810d41788345314fd26d836e.csv)