# Test 4

Done: Yes
Due Date: November 23, 2021
class: POL 1101
type: Exam

- What is the relationship of the federal and state constitutions to: the bureaucracy? tribal governments? local governments? What are the implications of this relationship for federalism?
    - Bureaucracy sets a hierarchy of power and a chain of command for people to follow.
- What is intergovernmental relations?
    - Describes how state, local, and the national governments interact.
- How diverse are state bureaucracies?
    - Public bureaucracies are not very diverse especially in terms of gender.
- What role does the bureaucracy play in public policy?
    - They enforce rules and regulations
    - They also manage public policy
- What are street level bureaucrats?  How do they fit in policy processes?
    - Street level bureaucrats are the ones that make day to day decisions to enforce policy.
    - A clear example of this are police.
- What is the relationship between what legislators do and what bureaucrats do?
    - Legislators come up with and pass legislation while bureaucrats enforce it.
- Who was Max Weber and what did he contribute to the study of organizations?
    - Max Weber talked about the organizational status of Bureaucracies and he said the following about what they embody:
        - Hierarchical structures of authority in which commands flow
        downward and information upward
        - A division of labor
        - A consistent set of abstract rules regarding what is to be done
        and who is to do it
- What is ASPA?
    - The American Society for Public Service Administration
- How do bureaucrats balance effectiveness, efficiency, and equity?
    - uh they don't LOL
- How do public sector careers compare to private sector? And the individuals in them and their competencies?
    - Public sector careers are typically more stable and lifelong. More of a guaranteed position and career progression as compared to the private sector.
- What is privatization in the public sector?
    - When you move property from public ownership to private ownership/management.
- What is the origin of tribal political authority?
    - Many treaties made with the U.S Government.
- What are tribal lands, and who lives on them?
    - Tribal lands are lands that Native Americans govern.
- What policy issues are distinct or unique to tribal communities?
    - Important ones: Access to electricity and modern utilities
    - Healthcare is also very important
- How are tribal governments organized, recognized federally, and where do they fit in the US system of government? What services are they responsible for providing?
    - Education, energy, first-responder services
- What are the role of public unions? What do unions emphasize compared to other bureaucratic movements?
    - Unions exist to protect the rights of public employees.
    - They focus on the rights of employees.
- What are the forms of local government? How do powers differ among elected and nonelected officials in these different forms?
    - counties, municipalities, special districts, and school districts.
    - it depends on the local governments, in school districts non-elected officials have more power than they would on a county scale
- What issues cause tension between state and local governments?
    - education
    - infrastructure
    - healthcare
- What are the differences between the gentlemen’s, spoils, and merit systems?
    - A spoils system means that when a political party gives government jobs to its supporters after winning an election.
    - The merit system is one that consists of picking the best people for the job through things like exams.
    - The gentlemen's system meant that the rich and aristocrats were picked to public service.
- How are state bureaucrats selected?
    - Through competitive exams and merit.
- What types of jobs and careers are there for non-elected individuals in government?
    - A lot
    - You could be a teacher, policeman, fireman, etc...
    - many ways to be a public servant
- What do the ASPA ethics guidelines suggest about how government is run or should be run?
    - The government should uphold the law and advance the public interest.
    - The government should be run efficiently, professionally, and with clear decision making.
- What is the definition of bureaucracy?
    - a system of government in which most of the important decisions are made by state officials rather than by elected representatives.
    - it is the hierarchy of the way non elected officials influence public policy
- What is public entrepreneurship?
    - Innovation occurring in the public sector, like what DARPA does
- How do governments innovate?
    - They create new technology by hiring research scientists
- What is performance measurement and what is its role in public management?
    - Performance measurement comes up with numeric data for how well public servants are doing.
    - This can help clarify objectives and measure performance on those objectives so that management can see what it needs to improve on leading to a more efficient system.
- What kinds of things are different in how a manager in a public organization vs a private one would work? What is different in what they can do, and what they have to consider?
    - Private managers have a lot more autonomy.
    - Public managers have more red tape to clear.
- What is a land acknowledgement?
    - Acknowledging that the land you are on was taken from Native Americans.
- What role did treaties play in how tribal governance works today?
    - treaties recognized the tribes as governments
    - they are the basis on which they are awarded semi autonomy
- What are the public problems that tribal governments face?
    - Health, energy, safety
- What is the trust responsibility related to tribal government?
- When did Native Americans get citizenship and other rights in the US?
    - 1887 they got citizenship if they gave up tribal citizenship
    - 1924 citizenship
    - 1965 was voting rights act
- What are the revenue sources for local governments? Tribal governments? Are there constraints on any of these revenue sources? What does the tribal consultation policies illustrate? Who are the Muscogee tribe? How do cities change, and what are the implications for public policy? What are special districts? How do they differ from a general-purpose government? Know both answer and examples. What did affirmative action do in the public sector?